---
toc: true
layout: post
description: CSUSM Reflection
categories: [markdown]
title: CSUSM Reflection
---

# Reflection 
It is important to understand that grades do not define a person's worth or capabilities. While grades are an essential component of academic success, they are not the only factor that determines a person's potential for success in life. It is essential to focus on learning, growth, and personal development rather than solely on achieving high grades. At CSUSM, there are many opportunities available for students pursuing STEM fields. The university offers a range of programs, resources, and support systems designed to help students excel in their academic pursuits. From research opportunities to internships and industry partnerships, CSUSM is committed to providing students with the tools they need to succeed in their future careers. By taking advantage of these resources and prioritizing personal growth over grades, students can set themselves up for a bright and successful future.

# Intro
Computer Science is applicable to every STEM field. So it is important to build a strong base with computer science early in our educational career. 


# About CSUSM:
CSUSM is a fairly new campus. It is common for internships. Because of its distinct location, San Marcos has many local opportunities. San Diego is known for its network of independent businesses.  Additionally there are many Hackathons at San Marcos that even highschoolers can attend. 


# Pathways at CSUSM:
BS chemistry, biochemistry, applied physics, computer science, computer information systems, cybersecurity, computer engineering , mathematics, electrical engineering , biotechnology 




#Internships:
Because of its location and wide outreach there are many opportunities to be found at Google, campus events, and in clubs. It is important to avoid unpaid internships, apply even if you feel under qualified, ask for help when applying . Additionally, there are many research labs that offer paid internships. 


# Financial Aid
## Grant vs Scholarship
Grant: government issued
Scholarship: Private issued 
FAFSA , studentaid.gov 


## Loans
Avoid loans
Subsidized:Partially funded by government, helps you with interest.  
Unsubsidized: Start getting interest right when you graduate. 

