---
title: CPT overview
image: /images/collegeboard.png
tags: [collegeboard]
layout: post
---
# Overview
My part in Cafe Gato (an online template for a hypothetical cat cafe), is a reviews page. A user can utilize the frontend endpoint to submit their rating and written review about their experience at Cafe Gato, along with seeing other’s reviews, including a display of the average rating. 

## Purpose and Function
The purpose is to provide customers a place to leave their honest reviews of the cafe, potential customers to view past reccomendations and finally for the buisness to review its performance by customer opinion.

​Function: ​There is a frontend endpoint with input boxes to input stars, name, and review. A backend will then record this data, if validated  and then be added to the reviews database. On the frontend, users can view all reviews along with a calculated average rating. 

## Data Abstraction
When JSON data of all the reviews is parsed, then a list, maybe called ratingsList , will record all of the rates. List will be iterated through to decide how many of each rate was recorded, and list’s content will be averaged to decide average. 

## Managing Complexity
Using the ratingList is managing complexity because it allows for the program to easily sort through it, using iteration in order to record the individual amount of people who opted for each rate. 

## Procedural Abstraction
A procedure, probably named something like sortRates() , would iterate through the list in order to decide how many people correspond to each number rating. This way, the data can be displayed on the user frontend. 

## Algorithm Implementation
Sequencing will be used in order for the reviews to be organized from highest rate at the top to lowest at the bottom. This is important because the user should see the best ratings first for a good impression . Selection will be incorporated when the next most recent rate is found and appended to the ratingList. Iteration is used when looking through the list to organize and count the elements by rate value.

## Testing
My two tests would be with a review of the ratings:
1. 5: Reviews db will be updated, and should be displayed at the very top of the list. 
2. 1: Reviews db will be updated, and should be displayed at the very bottom of the list. 

## Video Plan
I will show the input of a review of rating 5, reload the page and show its appearance at the top of the frontend. Then I will do the same with rating 1, and show its appearance at the bottom of the page. I would also like to show how the average rating shown at the top of the screen also changes. (increases with the addition of 5 and decreases with addition of 1) 

