---
title: 5.1 and 5.2 Blog
tags: [collegeboard]
layout: post
---
# 5.1 Effects of Computing Innovations - Lesson Notes
- Machines have fostered progress and creativity in medical field, engineering, communications, and even art
However computing innovations can also have downsides:
- digital divide
- bias
- legal/ethical concerns
- internet safety 
- Dopamine 
- Additionally you could have loss of privacy, replacement of humans for jobs, over dependence on technology, and negative health consequences. 
- Example: AI, machine learning, and data mining have greatly benefitted many fields, but also cause bias and unintended discrimination 
To be a responsible programmer, it is important to look at the bigger picture, and understand the effects of any computing innovation they create. 


# 5.1 Blog Reflection Questions
1. COme up with three of your own beneficial and corresponding harmful effects of computing? 
- Computers can help with different jobs, for example robot assisted surgery. A corresponding harm is that as jobs become more and more computerized, there may be a time where computer jobs surpass human labor.
- Computers help spread information and can be used for education. A corresponding harm is that it can also spread misinformation and harmful bias, epecially to younger, more impressionable people. 
- Technology can help form communities of like-minded people. A corresponding harm is that technology can also drive wedges, and decrease the amount of face-to-face communication .

2. Talk about dopamine issues above? Anything that is impacting your personal study and success in High School?
- Social media, video games, and other forms of interactive technology have proved to become addicting by allowing our brains to release dopamine. This addiction is negative because it forces time away from things such as school and spending time with friends/family. This actually did affect me heavily to the point where I would have to sacrifice my own health and sleep in order to catch up on school work that I could've done without the presence of my phone. Because of this I deleted social media off of my phone and since then, I have fixed the issue of my sleep schedule. I think this addiction is truly dangerous and affects many people at Del Norte. 

# 5.2 Digital Divide - Lesson Notes
Causes of digital divide: 
- Digital divide: the gulf between those who have ready access to computers and the internet and those who do not. As technology evoloves the digital divide presents equal participation and oppurtunity in all parts of life, affecting people in certain countries, and households with low income. 
- Poor or rural areas in the world have less access to technology 
- Also some countries have restricted access 
At Del Norte: 
- Internet blockers
- Need for personal computers
- Internet safety

# 5.2 Blog Reflection Questions
1. How does someone empower themself in a digital world?

- Digital literacy allows for a plethora of things that lead to self empowerment. These things include self learning, self sustainability, access to more oppurtunities, and interest based skill development. 
2. How does someone that is empowered help someone that is not empowered? Describe something you could do at Del Norte HS? 

- Empowered people can provide unempowered people by providing with a platform to empower themselves. Del Norte high school for example, provides many of their students with chromebooks. 
3. Is paper or red tape blocking digital empowerment? Are there barriers like this at Del Norte? 

- There are many barriers in our world that prevent the digital empowerment of certain people. One barrier at Del Norte is a financial barrier. Many aren't able to be digitally empowered because they lack access to proper technology.

# 5.3 and 5.4 Notes
The hacks for this section are to summarize and give our takes on the discussion from class. 
## Algorithmic Bias
Computers can be biased in serveral ways: 
- Data  (Discussed through training data of hp facial recognition software): data used to train a machine learning model can contain biases such as data sets that underepresent a certain group and therefore make unfair decisions about said groups. 
- Algorithms : Algorithms can be buil twith bias. Again, facial recognition software: darker skin tones yield higher fail rate for facial recognition software
- Humans who designed algorithms, etc may be biased themselves (conspiracies we discussed in class)

It is crucial to know and understand that technology can contain bias too and to consider that while writing your own algorithms. 

## Discussions: 
Female AI voices: 
- We discussed that when designed, this AI may have had human basis or originate from stereotyping, we concluded that this voice was probably just a default that people just seemed to enjoy more. In an effort to meet peoples' expectations, they most likely just designed it that way. 

Are Hp computers racist: 
- I believe that Hp computers are not racist. For one, more data on people of color is required to make a conclusion. Secondly, it is clearly the training data that is faulty not the people neccesarliy selling the laptop. To avoid data bias we discussed the importance of crowd surfing through the use of online surveys. 

## 5.4 Notes 
- Crowdsourcing: Using large, diverse, and quite random groups of people to get unbiased and pure data. In order to do this it is important to consider location, demographic, etc. 
- An excellent example of crowdsourcing we see in our class is through Rapid API. Some of that data, relating to surveys and people must have come from excellent crowd surfer 
- How could del norte help with crowdsources? 
we could ask people are our school to use our two main databases in order to give feedback about mainly the UI and to test if the program works with multipe people. We would have more perspective and therefore less bias so let's begin the survey as son as possible. 
